---
title: Data Subjects and its API
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

[ds]: https://gdpr-info.eu/art-4-gdpr/

# Data Subjects

A `data-subject` is a GDPR term that defines a natural person.

> Personal data shall mean any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person
> (‘data subject’). An identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly,
> in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an
> online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental,
> economic, cultural or social identity of that natural person.

In the perspective of STRM Privacy, a data-subject is a unique identifier within the scope of an organization that directly
(or indirectly) links to such a person, for example:

* a customer id
* a 'Burger Service Number' (Dutch Social Security Number)
* a car license plate (links indirectly to a person)

# Data Subjects API

This API enables your organization to find all encryption keys generated by STRM Privacy _pipelines_ (stream or batch) that were used to
encrypt Personally Identifiable Information.

The following requirements exist in order for this service to do its work:

1. data points must have an attribute that is equal to the data-subject. This would mean that something like `customer
   ID` would have to exist in your data
2. the data contract that is applicable to your data pipeline (stream or batch) must have a `dataSubjectField` attribute
   that defines _which data field_ contains the data subject. This field is _optional_; when absent, the Data Subjects
   API will not be involved in the pipeline.

With both requirements in place every new encryption key that is created while processing a pipeline of data points will
have its  _key link_ stored by the Data Subjects API, together with its validity period.

The Data Subjects API can be accessed from the CLI with the following commands:

* [`strm list data-subjects`](/cli-reference/strm/list/data-subjects.md)
* [`strm delete data-subjects`](/cli-reference/strm/delete/data-subjects.md)
* [`strm list data-subject-keylinks`](/cli-reference/strm/list/data-subject-keylinks.md)

A [recent blog-post](https://strmprivacy.io/posts/batchjobs-and-datasubjects/#dss) walks through a hands-on session with the Data
Subjects API.
