docs/03-quickstart/05-ccd/02-self-hosted/index.md, before:

---
title: Self-Hosted Installation
hide_table_of_contents: false
description: For any Kubernetes cluster (non-marketplace versions).
---

[helm-gcs]: https://github.com/hayorov/helm-gcs
[values]: https://console.strmprivacy.io/installation/configuration

This hands-on session shows how to get up-and-running with your Customer Cloud Deployment, and verify its
functionality.

## Step 1: Preparation

1. Make sure you have active kubernetes credentials to a cluster: `kubectl get nodes` should show the nodes of your
   cluster.
1. Create a namespace `strmprivacy` (`kubectl create namespace strmprivacy`) and set that as
   default (`kubens strmprivacy`).
1. Download the credentials file `values.yaml` through [the STRM Privacy Console][values].

The `values.yaml` file should be similar to this:

```yaml showLineNumbers
  registry:
    imagePullSecret: "ewogIC...."

  license:
    installationId: "f4cea...."
    installationClientId: "ins-...."
    installationClientSecret: "tii...."

  kafka:
    enabled: true

  redis:
    enabled: true

  postgresql:
    enabled: true
```

:::important
Keep your `values.yaml` somewhere safe, especially if you have made configurations that differ from the default pre-populated
version from the [console][values].
:::

## Step 2: Install the Helm chart

Start by adding the [GCS plugin][helm-gcs] for Helm, as the Helm Chart Repository for STRM Privacy resides in Google Cloud Storage:
```bash
helm plugin install https://github.com/hayorov/helm-gcs.git
```

First, add the helm repo:

```bash
helm repo add strmrepo gs://stream-machine-production-helm-chart/data-plane
```

Install _all_ the STRM components inside the `strmprivacy` namespace.
```bash
helm install strmprivacy strmrepo/strm --values values.yaml
```
`kubectl get pods --watch` or `k9s` provides nice feedback to see how the
installation is progressing. We see that some supporting infrastructure like Redis, Postgresql and Kafka are also
installed. The creation of these components can be disabled, in which case configuration to the actual components will
have to be added to the Helm chart.

:::note
During creation, you'll see Error states on the event-gateway pods for instance. This is _nominal_ because it will fail
to connect to Redis, which is still being deployed. Once Redis is healthy, you'll see the event-gateway status turn
healthy
:::

:::note Create in a different namespace
Add `--namespace <your-namespace>` to the `helm install` command.
:::

## Wrap-up

You've installed a STRM Privacy Data Plane in a Kubernetes cluster. If you have had any issues during your
installation, please let us know, or create a pull request
on [GitHub](https://github.com/strmprivacy/data-plane-helm-chart) to improve these docs.

Now that you are done with the setup, follow the docs on [how to interact with your cluster](/docs/03-quickstart/05-ccd/04-interacting.md) to start
using it.

Commit message:

fix(feature/ccd-improvements): fix broken links and add alternative GitHub-based install

docs/03-quickstart/05-ccd/02-self-hosted/index.md, after:

---
title: Self-Hosted Installation
hide_table_of_contents: false
description: For any Kubernetes cluster (non-marketplace versions).
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

[helm-gcs]: https://github.com/hayorov/helm-gcs
[values]: https://console.strmprivacy.io/settings/installation
[github-chart]: https://github.com/strmprivacy/data-plane-helm-chart/

This hands-on session shows how to get up-and-running with your Customer Cloud Deployment, and verify its
functionality.

## Step 1: Preparation

1. Make sure you have active kubernetes credentials to a cluster: `kubectl get nodes` should show the nodes of your
   cluster.
1. Create a namespace `strmprivacy` (`kubectl create namespace strmprivacy`) and set that as
   default (`kubens strmprivacy`).
1. Download the credentials file `values.yaml` through [the STRM Privacy Console][values] (under Installation configuration).

The `values.yaml` file should be similar to this:

```yaml showLineNumbers
  registry:
    imagePullSecret: "ewogIC...."

  license:
    installationId: "f4cea...."
    installationClientId: "ins-...."
    installationClientSecret: "tii...."
```

:::important
Keep your `values.yaml` somewhere safe, especially if you have made configurations that differ from the default pre-populated
version from the [console][values].
:::

## Step 2: Install the Helm chart


<Tabs>
<TabItem value="gcs-chart" label="From the STRM Helm Chart Repository (requires Google credentials)">

Start by adding the [GCS plugin][helm-gcs] for Helm, as the Helm Chart Repository for STRM Privacy resides in Google Cloud Storage:
```bash
helm plugin install https://github.com/hayorov/helm-gcs.git
```

First, add the helm repo:

```bash
helm repo add strmrepo gs://stream-machine-production-helm-chart/data-plane
```

Install _all_ the STRM components inside the `strmprivacy` namespace (or a different one of your choice).
```bash
helm install strmprivacy strmrepo/strm --values values.yaml --namespace strmprivacy
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="github-chart" label="Directly from GitHub">

Alternatively, clone the Helm Chart's [GitHub repo][github-chart] and checkout the master branch.

From the repo's root, and assuming your `values.yaml` file is in the root as well, execute the following
to install _all_ the STRM components inside the `strmprivacy` namespace (or a different one of your choice).
```bash
helm install strmprivacy helm --values values.yaml --namespace strmprivacy
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

`kubectl get pods --watch` or `k9s` provides nice feedback to see how the
installation is progressing. We see that some supporting infrastructure like Redis, Postgresql and Kafka are also
installed. The creation of these components can be disabled, in which case configuration to the actual components will
have to be added to the Helm chart.

:::note
During creation, you'll see Error states on the event-gateway pods for instance. This is _nominal_ because it will fail
to connect to Redis, which is still being deployed. Once Redis is healthy, you'll see the event-gateway status turn
healthy. Similarly, Kafka may take a while to reach the Ready state.
:::

## Wrap-up

You've installed a STRM Privacy Data Plane in a Kubernetes cluster. If you have had any issues during your
installation, please let us know, or create a pull request
on [GitHub](https://github.com/strmprivacy/docs) to improve these docs.

Now that you are done with the setup, follow the docs on [how to interact with your cluster](/docs/03-quickstart/05-ccd/04-interacting.md) to start
using it.
