docs/quickstart/batch/data-connectors/s3.md, before:

---
title: AWS S3
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 1
---

### Prepare the storage

In this section, you will create the target storage (e.g. an AWS S3 bucket)
and set up credentials with the required access.

Create an S3 bucket using the command below, using your own bucket name
(or do so in the AWS console):

```bash
$ aws s3 mb s3://<your-bucket-name>
```

:::note
S3 has evolved into a protocol, instead of just an Amazon product. It is possible to use our s3 data connector with
a non-AWS storage solution, as long as it provides an S3 compatible API. For example [min.io](https://min.io).
:::


Create a file with the policy document below and save it in the current
directory. This file contains the permissions the data connector needs.

```json title=strm-policy.json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [ "s3:GetBucketLocation" ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<your-bucket-name>" //(1)
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [ "s3:PutObject" ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<your-bucket-name>/<optional-prefix>/*.jsonl" //(2)
    }
  ]
}
```

1. fill in your bucket name
2. fill in your bucket name **and** an optional path prefix

:::important
Make sure you replace both occurrences of `<your-bucket-name>` with the
actual name of your S3 bucket and replace the `<optional-prefix>` with
the prefix directory in which STRM Privacy should put the files. If there is no
prefix, also leave out the last slash (as a double slash will not work).
:::

The provided policy document shows the minimal set of permissions needed
by the data connector. They are used as follows:

- [GetBucketLocation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_GetBucketLocation.html):
  This is an unfortunate necessity, because the AWS SDK requires us to
  connect to the same region as from where the bucket has originally
  been created. STRM Privacy cannot know this in advance, so we need
  to query it using this operation.

- [PutObject](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_PutObject.html):
  the data connector will only be able to write `*.jsonl` files to the specified location
  (bucket + prefix).

We don’t need more permissions than these, and we also prefer to have as
few permissions as possible.

Now we need to create an IAM user which adheres to this policy. (This
example uses the username `strm-export-demo`, but we recommend you use a
more descriptive name for your organization).

First create the user:

```bash
aws iam create-user --user-name strm-export-demo
```

Then attach the above policy. This example assumes the policy
document is in the same directory. Replace the file name
`strm-policy.json` with the correct file name.

```bash
aws iam put-user-policy --user-name strm-export-demo \
  --policy-name strm-bucket-write-access \
  --policy-document file://strm-policy.json
```

Finally, create the access key for this user and download the
credentials (keep these safe, as they provide access to the bucket):

```bash
aws iam create-access-key --user-name strm-export-demo > s3.json
````

:::note
STRM Privacy validates the user & credentials configuration by writing an empty JSONL file
(file name: `.strm_test_<random UUID>.jsonl`) to the specified
bucket/prefix upon creation of the batch exporter.
:::

First, make sure you have a file named `s3.json` in your current
directory, with the following contents:

```json title=s3.json
{
  "AccessKey": {
    "UserName": "<your user name>",
    "AccessKeyId": "<your access key>",
    "Status": "Active",
    "SecretAccessKey": "<your secret access key>",
    "CreateDate": "<the creation date>"
  }
}
```

:::note
This is the same JSON as returned by `aws iam create-access-key`.
:::
### Create the data connector {#create-data-connector}
With the AWS credentials in a file `s3.json`, you can
create the data connector using the command below:

```bash
strm create data-connector s3 my-s3 strmprivacy-export-demo --credentials-file=s3.json
```

```json
{
  "ref": {
    "name": "my-s3",
    "projectId": "30fcd008-9696-...."
  },
  "s3Bucket": {
    "bucketName": "strmprivacy-export-demo"
  }
}
```

This will create a data connector named `my-s3` for the bucket `strmprivacy-export-demo`,
using the provided credentials. Specify the actual name of your bucket, and any name for the
data connector itself.

Commit message:

feat(strm-1648): changed keys file format to csv (#37)
OK, go!

docs/quickstart/batch/data-connectors/s3.md, after:

---
title: AWS S3
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 1
---

### Prepare the storage

In this section, you will create the target storage (e.g. an AWS S3 bucket)
and set up credentials with the required access.

Create an S3 bucket using the command below, using your own bucket name
(or do so in the AWS console):

```sh
$ aws s3 mb s3://<your-bucket-name>
```

:::note
S3 has evolved into a protocol, instead of just an Amazon product. It is possible to use our s3 data connector with
a non-AWS storage solution, as long as it provides an S3 compatible API. For example [min.io](https://min.io).
:::


Create a file with the policy document below and save it in the current
directory. This file contains the permissions the data connector needs.

```json title=strm-policy.json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [ "s3:GetBucketLocation" ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<your-bucket-name>" //(1)
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [ "s3:PutObject" ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<your-bucket-name>/<optional-prefix>/*" //(2)
    },
    // if your data-connector is used in batch jobs it also needs GetObject rights
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [ "s3:GetObject" ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::<your-bucket-name>/<optional-prefix>/*" //(2)
    }
  ]
}
```

1. fill in your bucket name
2. fill in your bucket name **and** an optional path prefix. You might add additional constraints via a file suffix
   (`*.jsonl, *.csv`).

:::important
Make sure you replace all occurrences of `<your-bucket-name>` with the
actual name of your S3 bucket and replace the `<optional-prefix>` with
the prefix directory in which STRM Privacy should put the files. If there is no
prefix, also leave out the last slash (as a double slash will not work).
:::

The provided policy document shows the minimal set of permissions needed
by the data connector. They are used as follows:

- [GetBucketLocation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_GetBucketLocation.html):
  This is an unfortunate necessity, because the AWS SDK requires us to
  connect to the same region as from where the bucket has originally
  been created. STRM Privacy cannot know this in advance, so we need
  to query it using this operation.

- [PutObject](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_PutObject.html):
  the data connector will be able to write files to the specified location
  (bucket + prefix).

- [GetObject](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_GetObject.html):
  the data connector will be able to read files from the specified location
  (bucket + prefix).

We don’t need more permissions than these, and we also prefer to have as
few permissions as possible.

Now we need to create an IAM user which adheres to this policy. (This
example uses the username `strm-export-demo`, but we recommend you use a
more descriptive name for your organization).

First create the user:

```sh
aws iam create-user --user-name strm-export-demo
```

Then attach the above policy. This example assumes the policy
document is in the same directory. Replace the file name
`strm-policy.json` with the correct file name.

```sh
aws iam put-user-policy --user-name strm-export-demo \
  --policy-name strm-bucket-write-access \
  --policy-document file://strm-policy.json
```

Finally, create the access key for this user and download the
credentials (keep these safe, as they provide access to the bucket):

```sh
aws iam create-access-key --user-name strm-export-demo > s3.json
````

:::note
STRM Privacy validates the user & credentials configuration by writing an empty JSONL file
(file name: `.strm_test_<random UUID>.jsonl`) to the specified
bucket/prefix upon creation of the batch exporter.
:::

First, make sure you have a file named `s3.json` in your current
directory, with the following contents:

```json title=s3.json
{
  "AccessKey": {
    "UserName": "<your user name>",
    "AccessKeyId": "<your access key>",
    "Status": "Active",
    "SecretAccessKey": "<your secret access key>",
    "CreateDate": "<the creation date>"
  }
}
```

:::note
This is the same JSON as returned by `aws iam create-access-key`.
:::
### Create the data connector {#create-data-connector}
With the AWS credentials in a file `s3.json`, you can
create the data connector using the command below:

```sh
strm create data-connector s3 my-s3 strmprivacy-export-demo --credentials-file=s3.json
```

```json
{
  "ref": {
    "name": "my-s3",
    "projectId": "30fcd008-9696-...."
  },
  "s3Bucket": {
    "bucketName": "strmprivacy-export-demo"
  }
}
```

This will create a data connector named `my-s3` for the bucket `strmprivacy-export-demo`,
using the provided credentials. Specify the actual name of your bucket, and any name for the
data connector itself.
